papers/03-python_luigi-slides.md, before:

% Python

# Subprocess
## Starting subprocess from Python
`subprocess` Python module provides functionality to execute other programs from inside of Python script.

```Python
import subprocess

subprocess.run(["ls", "-l"])
```

## Checking process status

```Python
import subprocess

result = subprocess.run(["ls", "-l"], stdout=subprocess.PIPE, encoding="utf-8")

if result.returncode == 0:
    print(result.stdout)
```

`returncode` describes if the command was executed successfully - then it has a value of 0 or if the command failed (value other than 0)

## Excercises
### 1
Implement a script that lists users logged in to Linux

_Tip_: `w` is the command that lists all logged in users

### 2
Modify previous script so that it displays only user names

_Tip_: use `result.stdout.split("\n")` to split the whole output into lines

# Luigi
## What is Luigi
Luigi is framework used for managing long running jobs and making sure the processing is fully executed.

In server environment it also provides monitoring of the execution and dependency visualisation.

## Installation

```bash
pip install luigi==2.7.1
```

## Running Luigi locally

```bash
PYTHONPATH='.' luigi --module sample PrintAll --local-scheduler --input-file ./sequence.fasta
```

## Basic building blocks
- `Target` - usually a single file `LocalTarget` or a database entry `MySqlTarget` it is the source and/or the destination of the processing done by the `Task`
- `Task` - single step in processing workflow, it might be reading the content of the file, running a command or just a milestone when all of the previous tasks were executed
- `Parameter`
- `Dependency`

## Task
![](images/png/task_breakdown.png)

## Task
- `param = luigi.Parameter(default=42)` - parameter declaration
- `requires()` - defines a list of tasks that need to be finished before current task is executed
- `run()` - this is where computation happens
- `output()` - returns a `Target` where the output is saved

## Parameters

```python
import luigi
class DailyReport(luigi.Task)
    date = luigi.DateParameter(default=datetime.date.today())
```

You can pass a date via command line

```bash
--date 2012-05-10
```

Commit message:

long running task with big dependency tree

papers/03-python_luigi-slides.md, after:

% Python

# Subprocess
## Starting subprocess from Python
`subprocess` Python module provides functionality to execute other programs from inside of Python script.

```Python
import subprocess

subprocess.run(["ls", "-l"])
```

## Checking process status

```Python
import subprocess

result = subprocess.run(["ls", "-l"], stdout=subprocess.PIPE, encoding="utf-8")

if result.returncode == 0:
    print(result.stdout)
```

`returncode` describes if the command was executed successfully - then it has a value of 0 or if the command failed (value other than 0)

## Excercises
### 1
Implement a script that lists users logged in to Linux

_Tip_: `w` is the command that lists all logged in users

### 2
Modify previous script so that it displays only user names

_Tip_: use `result.stdout.split("\n")` to split the whole output into lines

# Luigi
## What is Luigi
Luigi is framework used for managing long running jobs and making sure the processing is fully executed.

In server environment it also provides monitoring of the execution and dependency visualisation.

## Installation

```bash
pip install luigi==2.7.1
```

## Running Luigi with central scheduler
Running a central scheduler that is used to manage a workers pool and provides GUI to monitor it [http://localhost:8082/](http://localhost:8082/)

```bash
luigid
```

Then it is enough to schedule luigi job

```bash
export PYTHONPATH='.'
luigi --module longrunning LongRunningParent
```

## Multiple workers

```bash
export PYTHONPATH='.'
luigi --module longrunning LongRunningParent --workers 3
```

## Running Luigi locally

```bash
export PYTHONPATH='.'
luigi --module sample PrintAll --local-scheduler --input-file ./sequence.fasta
```

## Basic building blocks
- `Target` - usually a single file `LocalTarget` or a database entry `MySqlTarget` it is the source and/or the destination of the processing done by the `Task`
- `Task` - single step in processing workflow, it might be reading the content of the file, running a command or just a milestone when all of the previous tasks were executed
- `Parameter`
- `Dependency`

## Task
![](images/png/task_breakdown.png)

## Task
- `param = luigi.Parameter(default=42)` - parameter declaration
- `requires()` - defines a list of tasks that need to be finished before current task is executed
- `run()` - this is where computation happens
- `output()` - returns a `Target` where the output is saved

## Parameters

```python
import luigi
class DailyReport(luigi.Task)
    date = luigi.DateParameter(default=datetime.date.today())
```

You can pass a date via command line

```bash
--date 2012-05-10
```
